Tonight, as we come on the air, we're
following several big stories-- a dangerous winter storm
about to slam the United States and the new reporting
from CBS News about when Russia may invade Ukraine.
Russia claims these images show they're
pulling back from the border.
But tonight, US officials tell CBS News
the number of Russian troops have actually increased.
We'll show you the new satellite images.
Massive winter storm.
Tonight, more than 70 million Americans under weather alerts,
preparing for heavy snow, dangerous ice,
and possible tornadoes.
A break from masks.
The revealing new comments from the head
of the CDC and the new COVID changes that may be coming.
Omicron cases are declining, and we are all
cautiously optimistic.
What's next for America's schoolchildren?
Bob Saget's family sues.
Why a judge says releasing his death records
would cause Saget's loved ones irreparable harm.
CBS News Investigation.
The broken VA system for veterans
exposed to contaminated drinking water.
Team USA goes for the gold.
The excitement as the women's hockey team
faces off against Canada.
Explosion lights up the New York sky.
Why a tanker with 9,000 gallons of fuel went up in flames.
Holy guacamole.
Why the price of avocados could skyrocket.
And showcasing African-American history, one stitch at a time.
This is the CBS Evening News with Norah O'Donnell,
reporting from the nation's capital.
Good evening to our viewers in the west,
and thank you for joining us.
We want to begin with new questions
about what Russia is really up to and their claims tonight
that they're retreating from the border with Ukraine.
Well, the Biden administration and NATO
don't believe it to be true.
In fact, the intelligence shows just the opposite,
with some troops moving closer to the border.
And this just in.
US officials now say 7,000 more Russian soldiers
have arrived near Ukraine, with some arriving as recently
as today.
The crisis in Ukraine keeps growing by the hour,
and the United States continues to warn that a Russian invasion
could happen at any moment.
The State Department says Russian propaganda
and misinformation could be used as a pretext
to cross the borders.
Soldiers from the 101st Airborne Division at Fort Campbell,
Kentucky, tonight, have been ordered
to deploy to Europe as part of what's called Joint Task Force
Dragon with mission to support our NATO allies
and partners in the region.
We have a lot of News to get to tonight.
And CBS's Holly Williams is going to join us
from Ukraine's capital of Kiev.
Good evening, Holly.
Good evening, Norah.
US officials tell CBS News that it's
likely Russian cyber actors have already
targeted Ukraine's government, military, and critical
infrastructure to collect intelligence.
It's feared an invasion could be preceded by devastating cyber
attacks.
The Russian government claims this video
shows columns of its military vehicles leaving Crimea.
But today's satellite images of Russia's troop build-up
on Ukraine's border reportedly show
heightened military activity, as well as a new pontoon bridge
and a large field hospital, both in Belarus
to Ukraine's North, where Russia is carrying out
a massive military exercise.
There's what Russia says, and there's what Russia does.
And we're watching very closely what steps they're taken.
But they remain amassed in a threatening way at the border.
There's skepticism from Washington
all the way to Ukraine, where thousands gathered today
to demonstrate their unity in the face of the Russian threat.
I have my emergency bag in my flat,
and I'm ready to defend my country.
It's two different countries, and they must understand
it is two different countries.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky
also says he's seen no sign of a Russian pullback.
He observed Ukrainian military drills today.
If there's an invasion, it will be a David and Goliath battle.
Ukraine's military is estimated to have
roughly a quarter the manpower of Russia's and less
than a tenth of Russia's fighter aircraft.
Do you still think it's possible that Russia will invade?
Please don't have any doubt on that.
Petro Poroshenko is the former President of Ukraine
and told us this crisis is just one episode in a new Cold War
between the West and Russia.
My two pieces of advice.
First, don't trust Putin.
Second, don't be afraid of Putin.
Belarus claims all Russian forces
will leave its territory when those military exercises
end this weekend.
We'll have to wait and see if that's true.
It might be a better indication of Russia's intentions.
Norah.
Holly Williams, thank you.
And we're lucky to have CBS' chief foreign affairs
correspondent and moderator of Face the Nation Margaret
Brennan with us here tonight.
So Margaret, we just heard from Holly.
What are you hearing from your sources
when Russia might strike?
Well, Russia is poised to attack at any time,
but US officials now believe the timeline for potential attack
is pushed out another four or five days.
That puts us past the Olympics, past a key gathering of leaders
this weekend in Germany.
And in fact, Ukraine's president is
scheduled to be out of the country
at that summit over this weekend, which,
sources have indicated to me, may not
be the best idea for him.
But right now, given the threat level to his country,
more than 60% of Russia's standing army
is at high alert right at the border.
That's really interesting about the timeline.
What do officials think Putin is really after here?
What's he doing?
What's his strategy?
That's what has kept everyone guessing.
But really, what I hear is that Putin gives himself
many different options.
That's the way he plays this.
And US and European allies are slightly
different in their assessment.
Some Europeans believe that he is trying coercion, negotiating
with the West while it has a gun to its head.
Others, like the United States, think
he actually does intend to use these military forces.
And one potential flashpoint is in the Southeast of Ukraine,
in this region called Donbas.
There are pro-Russian separatists
who have been fighting there.
And Putin has been running propaganda
claiming there's a genocide underway.
He may try to use that as a predicate to justify
an invasion, which he could do at any time.
Meanwhile, the US is just trying to talk him out of it.
All right, Margaret Brennan, with all that great reporting.
Thank you so much.
Let's turn now to the weather because more than 70
million Americans are in the path of a powerful winter
storm.
Meteorologist Mike Perez joins us now
from the weather channel's global headquarters.
Good evening, Mike.
So how dangerous is the system going to be?
Well, Norah, this is a potent storm.
It's going to bring everything for us,
from tornadoes to extreme winds to heavy snow.
Let's begin with the heavy snow because in the Colorado
Rockies, that's where we have the snow throughout the evening
and overnight.
And by the time you wake up in a place like Denver,
4 to 5 inches will have accumulated.
But after that, it gets very intense through the Midwest
as we head through Thursday.
From Kansas, all the way through Michigan,
a swath, a narrow swath, but about a half a foot,
some pockets where you might pick up
as much as a foot of snow.
And then, there is the severe weather component
to all of this as well, with strong storms overnight tonight
across Oklahoma and then down through Texas,
anticipating a squall line through the Dallas Fort Worth
Metroplex in the morning.
That entire system racing eastbound
through the day on Thursday, even more intense storms
anticipated in the afternoon and evening.
Tornado chances are going up here
across Tennessee, Mississippi, and Alabama.
And Norah, with all of this weather,
heavy rain is coming as well, and the threat
for flash flooding and river flooding increases.
Lots to watch for.
Mike Perez, thank you.
Tonight, the CDC says it may soon
loosen its COVID mask guidance.
A growing number of states have already dropped indoor mask
mandates for businesses while the debate over masking
in schools rages on.
CBS's Mola Lenghi reports.
We want to give people a break from things like mask wearing
when these metrics are better, and then
have the ability to reach for them again should things
worsen.
For now, the CDC'S recommendations
remain unchanged.
Regardless of vaccination status,
everyone should wear a mask in indoor public spaces,
in areas of high transmission.
As of today, that's more than 96% of US counties.
In the last two weeks, 11 states and Washington DC
have rolled back their mask mandates.
But 55% of the nation's top 500 school districts
require masks while more than 40% do not.
In Pennsylvania, the decision to mandate masks
rests with local districts.
At Conestoga High School, outside Philadelphia, tensions
have reached a boiling point.
Come on.
Let's go.
On Friday, dozens of students, who
believe masks should be optional, staged a walkout.
Ben Shapiro is a sophomore and works on the school paper.
It's a lot of hatred coming from both sides, directed
at each other.
The district says the debate then spilled onto social media,
leading to hundreds of comments, then potential threats.
The district decided to close the school, Monday, moving
instruction online.
It seems like a distracting environment to go to school in.
Every period, it's just wondering if something else
going to happen or is there going to be another walkout?
Well, as a precaution, there's an increased police presence
here on school grounds this week.
In a statement, the school district
said, in part, that it has been exploring ways
to move away from mandatory masking since January, Norah.
Mola Lenghi, thank you.
Let's turn now to a CBS News investigation.
Military families have long complained about illnesses
after they were exposed to water contaminated with carcinogenic
chemicals like benzene and dry cleaning liquids
at Camp Lejeune Military Base in North Carolina.
To make matters worse, veterans who tried to get help
are now describing a broken VA claims system.
Here's CBS's Catherine Herridge.
I was a very healthy man until 67 years old.
A lifelong aviator, Marine Corps veteran Mark Koutnor
thought he'd be working on his plane and taking to the skies
during retirement.
But in 2017, Koutnor was diagnosed with prostate
and then pancreatic cancer.
Why did I have two cancer's back to back like this?
As a young Marine, Koutnor has spent the summer of 1977
at Camp Lejeune.
The government admits that between 1953 and 1987,
nearly a million veterans and civilians
were potentially exposed to contaminated
drinking water at the North Carolina military base.
How many doctors have blamed your cancer
on the contaminated water at Camp Lejeune?
Seven.
With letters from the country's leading cancer specialists,
Koutnor filed a VA claim, connecting his cancers
to his time at Camp Lejeune.
It instantly just got denied.
Based on your experience, is the VA system working?
No, not at all.
It's completely failing veterans.
Mike Wishnie runs the Veterans Legal Services
Clinic at Yale Law School.
His students filed a lawsuit in 2016,
seeking more information about the doctors who
review their claims, known as subject matter experts or SMEs.
Not all of them appeared to have the qualifications
for the job they were doing.
According to documents obtained by CBS News,
the approval rate dropped from 25 to 5%
after they brought in these experts.
The VA says the average approval rate is now
17%, though, their own data shows
it went as low as just 1%.
They're saying it's deny, deny, deny until they die.
The VA denied Koutnor's claim on the basis
that their subject matter expert was more persuasive.
They don't want to step up and do the right thing.
Koutnor now is appealing and says it's not about the money.
My appeal now is 18 months old.
I'm hoping to hear before in my lifetime,
but there's no guarantee.
In a statement to CBS News, the VA
says it's committed to the processing of all claims
to ensure priority veterans are served as timely and accurately
as possible.
They told us the doctor in Mark's case
has appropriate credentials and also
received four hours of additional training
to evaluate contaminated water cases at Camp Lejeune.
Norah.
Catherine Herridge, with that important investigation,
thank you.
Let's turn now to Beijing and the Olympics,
where the US men's hockey team had their gold medal
dreams melt away, following a 3 to 2
quarterfinal loss to Slovakia.
Meanwhile, tonight, root for girl power, with the US women's
hockey team once again going for gold against archrival Canada.
CBS' Jamie Yuccas has a preview of the big game.
This is the sixth time these teams have battled
for gold in the Olympic finals.
Canada has won three times.
Tonight, the Americans hope to even the score.
We bring out the best level of competition from one another.
We spent time with Hilary Knight and the rest of the team
before they left for Beijing.
We are in those jerseys.
Hate is probably a word that comes up a lot.
Hate?
Yeah, we hate one another, right?
These women are all about perseverance, many growing up
without leagues of their own.
I grew up in a place where women didn't really
play hockey at all.
So I was a figure skater to start out.
I hated it so much.
Abby Roque is the first Indigenous woman
to skate for Team USA Hockey.
She's also a dual citizen.
Her dad is Canadian.
He had to switch his hats and put on the USA cap.
I feel kind of bad for dad.
Yeah.
He's switched sides, to the good side.
These women say, they're not only shooting for gold.
There's another goal.
We're the women that are doing it,
like we're in the trenches building something.
Building a future, not just for themselves, but for the sport.
If we can inspire and even be a spark in someone's dream,
and we've done our job.
And Jamie Yuccas joins us now from Beijing.
And Jamie, they've already played each other
this Olympics, right?
They did.
These two tangled eight days ago in round robin play.
Canada did win that game.
But now, the hardware is on the line, Norah,
so it should be fun to watch.
Because these two teams, I have to tell you,
they hate each other.
But what we love is that every time these two meet,
little girls start participating in the sport more all
around the world.
So that is a cool thing.
Yeah, a strong match-up.
Jamie Yuccas, thanks.
The Los Angeles Rams got the Hollywood ending
they wanted at the Super Bowl.
And today, they held the first championship victory parade
in LA since 2014.
The pandemic forced LA Lakers and the Dodgers
to cancel parades in 2020.
Quarterback Matthew Stafford, Super Bowl MVP, Cooper Kupp,
and Aaron Donald, and the rest of the team
celebrated in a sea of Rams' blue and yellow.
All right, still ahead on tonight's
CBS Evening News, the investigation following
the fiery explosion of a truck carrying thousands
of gallons of gasoline and a victory in court
for the family of Bob Saget.
Why records related to his death investigation
are not going to be released for now.
And why avocados will soon be in short supply.
And if you can find them, it'll cost you.
Tonight, a Florida judge is temporarily
blocking the release of photos, video,
and other records connected to the investigation
and to the death of Bob Saget.
The actor and comedian's family sued
a Florida Sheriff and a medical examiner's office
to block the release.
The judge agreed it would cause them emotional distress.
The medical examiner said last week
that Saget suffered severe skull fractures, likely from a fall
or from hitting his head on the headboard of his bed,
and ruled his death accidental.
All right, tonight, officials in Rockville, Center in New York
are investigating what led to the fiery crash of a tanker
truck, holding more than 9,000 gallons of gasoline.
The truck crashed into a vacant building and burst into flames.
Burning fuel leaked into the sewer system,
sending flames shooting out of manholes.
Power was cut to the hundreds of homes in the area
to prevent another fire.
The truck driver and three firefighters
are being treated for injuries.
All right.
Now, to this important story.
If you love guacamole, you'll want to pay attention.
The US stopped all avocado imports from Mexico
until further notice, following a threat to an American safety
inspector.
The threat comes amid escalating drug cartel violence
in the region, where nearly 90% of avocados imported to the US
come from.
The disruption could lead to an avocado shortage
and, yes, a spike in prices.
Up next, an American quilt maker who
is weaving her way into history and teaching it
at the same time.
If you can't watch the CBS Evening News, you can listen.
Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.
Sponsored by Principal Financial Group.
Long ago, quilt-making took the leap from our grandmother's bed
covering to the walls of art museums around the world.
As part of Black History Month series,
CBS's Maurice DuBois has the story
of an artist who's making history and teaching
it one stitch at a time.
Bisa Butler's artwork has a way of stopping people
in their tracks.
Amazing, right?
Oh, my gosh.
Her life-sized portraits look like they're
from the strokes of a painter's brush.
But Butler is a quilt-maker, weaving fabrics of all kinds
into celebrations of Black life in America.
I always want my portraits to be life-sized,
to look the person in the eye, and to grab them.
Butler says she is often inspired by historical photos
like this one in 1940, a North Carolina family fleeing the Jim
Crow South.
In seven months, she transformed their story onto fabric.
What about this photo jumped out at you?
That this family was so unified in coming so far,
and that they were seeking better.
She learned to sew from her mother and grandmother
and started out as a school art teacher.
Now, her work graces major magazine covers.
Last year, she had her first solo show
at the famed Art Institute of Chicago.
I love the hair.
I love the hair on these.
Does it feel like you're filling in a gap in history that
was just left out?
Absolutely.
I feel like our history has often
been either concealed, deliberately erased,
or ignored.
It took Butler 11 months to create her most recent quilt,
commissioned by the Smithsonian, depicting the Harlem
Hellfighters and all Black infantry that
fought in World War I.
They hoped that if they fought valiantly in Europe,
that when they came back to the US,
they would be treated differently.
They were not.
A life mission, stitching together the African-American
experience one portrait at a time
Maurice DuBois, CBS News, Newark, New Jersey.
Absolutely stunning.
We'll be right back.
This portion of the CBS Evening News
is sponsored by Principal-- helping you plan,
protect, invest, and retire.
Tomorrow, our Eye on America, how a unique program
is increasing Black entrepreneurs
in one of the poorest regions of the country, the Mississippi
Delta.
And if you can't watch us live, set your DVR,
so you can watch us later.
That's tonight's CBS Evening News.
I'm Norah O'Donnell.
Good night.